docs/index.md, before:

[![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.12-green.svg)](https://ea3a0fbb-599f-4d83-86f1-0e71abe27513.ka.bw-cloud-instance.org/lc3267/quantum/) [![Pipx Status](https://servers.stroblme.de/api/badge/3/uptime/72?color=%2331c754&labelColor=%233f4850)](https://servers.stroblme.de/status/open) [![Quality](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/quality.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/quality.yml) [![Testing](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/test.yml) [![Documentation](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/docs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/docs.yml)


This repo contains some of the commonly used Ansaetze and coding stuff required for working with QML and Data-Reuploading models.
There are also dedicated classes to calculate entanglement and expressiblity of a provided model as well as its Fourier coefficients.

Checkout the [coverage report](coverage/index.html).

Commit message:

added get started hint
Signed-off-by: Melvin Strobl <lc3267@kit.edu>

docs/index.md, after:

[![version](https://img.shields.io/badge/version-0.1.12-green.svg)](https://ea3a0fbb-599f-4d83-86f1-0e71abe27513.ka.bw-cloud-instance.org/lc3267/quantum/) [![Pipx Status](https://servers.stroblme.de/api/badge/3/uptime/72?color=%2331c754&labelColor=%233f4850)](https://servers.stroblme.de/status/open) [![Quality](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/quality.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/quality.yml) [![Testing](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/test.yml) [![Documentation](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/docs.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cirKITers/qml-essentials/actions/workflows/docs.yml)


This repo contains some of the commonly used Ansaetze and coding stuff required for working with QML and Data-Reuploading models.
There are also dedicated classes to calculate entanglement and expressiblity of a provided model as well as its Fourier coefficients.

Curious? :rocket: Get started by heading to the [setup page](https://cirkiters.github.io/qml-essentials/setup/).

Checkout the [coverage report](coverage/index.html).
